you know every parent knows the first
year with a baby is both challenging and
exciting your baby cries all the time
goes net grabs their ears and you have
no idea what any of this means
luckily some experts have decoded this
unique baby language and I'm here to
share the clues you'll need to figure
out what your little bundle of joy is
trying to say let's start with the way
your baby cries during the first 4
months of life crying is the main way
babies express their needs here are
seven types of cries to listen for and
what they mean a calling cry ever heard
your baby cry for about five to six
seconds and then pause for the next 20
seconds they're not watching a
commercial that's a calling cry this
means that your baby has been alone for
a while and now desperately need your
attention if you don't respond right
away you'll hear this fascinating cycle
of crying a couple more times so pick
your baby up and give them all the
loving they need a hunger cry
this type of cry is very similar to the
calling cry with one little catch if you
don't get in there right away the crime
becomes hysterical quickly your baby may
also start rotating their head and
making smacking sounds with their mouths
this is not the thing from The Exorcist
movie this is just a clear sign that
it's time to feed
a pain cry if you hear a pain cry once
you'll never confuse it with any of the
others this crying is flat and constant
but small hysterical outbursts mean the
pain is increasing and you should call
the doctor as soon as possible this type
of crying is also very loud unless your
baby isn't strong enough to make loud
noises a physiological cry babies deal
with all kinds of bodily functions like
us from having gas to peeing and pooping
and this can cause them more discomfort
than you think
thankfully babies usually let you know
right away by whining and squeaking as
they cry asleep cry sleep is another
problem for babies sometimes they just
can't I can relate
you know that old saying that goes I
slept like a baby you know meaning calm
and peaceful all night long well it
really means I slept and then I woke up
every two hours and cried yeah well in
this case their crying sounds like an
offended and smooth whining followed by
loads of yawning sleepy babies also tend
to rub their eyes and ears so you can
look out for these red flags as well a
discomfort cry this crying sounds very
irritated and often comes together with
fidgeting your baby can also flail their
arms and legs and arch their backs this
usually means time to check their diaper
or change their clothes they may be
either too hot or too cold a bored cry
this one is extremely common your baby
cries you try doing everything you can
but still can't figure out what's wrong
easy your baby is simply frustrated or
bored take them for a walk outside or
around the house play a hand or two of
Poker or something
yeah just kidding a simple environment
change can stop the crying quickly okay
so now that you got the different crying
scenarios down it's time to talk about
the other sound your baby makes yep all
these strange sounds have their own
meaning
Australian pediatrician dr. Priscilla
Dunstan has been studying early
childhood sounds for more than 20 years
she examined three to four month old
babies of different nationalities during
her research according to Dunston your
baby starts actively making
communication sounds after only four
months old before that the sounds are
just a primary reflex that needs to be
figured out so here's a little sound
cheat sheet nee means I'm hungry feed me
this sound comes from your baby pushing
their tongue up to the roof of their
mouth triggering the sucking reflex a is
I think I'm gonna burp now with that the
excess air starts leaving the baby's
esophagus and your baby tries to release
it from their mouth and sometimes you
get more than just a burp if you know
what I mean Allah means I am so sleepy
and tired your baby just folds their
lips before yawning and this sound comes
out how is baby speak for I'm not
feeling it I'm uncomfortable the main
reason is probably an unpleasant feeling
of some sort the baby can give away
their feelings by constantly moving and
jerking their hands and feet as well
here indicates I of a sort Tommy mommy
helped this strange sound can turn into
a moan as your baby stretches the belly
and exhales don't ignore these symptoms
take action right away and that's
basically all the baby sounds you need
to know feel like a baby whisperer yet
wait I have one more important lesson
for you baby movements small babies have
their own body language that can help
you detect their needs and moods let's
take a look
arching their backs parents know that
babies under two months old arch their
backs a lot in most cases it's just a
typical response to pain or colic but
there are a couple of exceptions to this
rule if your baby arches their back
during eating it's a sign of reflux
after eating it means they're full and
if your baby has passed the
two-month-old mark with
till does it no need to worry they're
simply tired or in a bad mood rotating
their head this is your baby's way of
calming down you usually see it when
they're about to fall asleep or hang out
with people they don't know yet good
thing is that you can help your baby
just gently rub their back and they'll
instantly relax grabbing their ears this
may look pretty scary but it's
completely natural your baby is simply
exploring their body
however if ear rubbing is followed by
intense crying you should visit the
doctor to find the source of the problem
clenching their fists fists or no fists
shows how hungry your baby is a
perfectly relaxed hand means that
they're full well strong fist shows that
they need baby food right this minute
noticing this little detail in time can
help you prevent the hungry crying and
save you tons of time and stress lifting
their legs during the first months of
your baby's life colic and tummy pain
are almost inevitable your baby tries to
cope with it on their own
by lifting their legs to ease those
unpleasant sensations but any additional
help from you is totally welcome tummy
rubs are awesome jerking their arms loud
sounds bright lights and sudden wake
up's provoke the startle reflex and
little babies as a result they jerk
their arms out of fear in this case your
job is to comfort your baby and make
sure that they're alright and that's it
that's everything you need to know to
read your baby's mind pediatricians
recommend parents talk to their babies
as often as possible show them all the
things around them explain how they work
or tell cool stories even if you feel
like they don't understand you this type
of constant communication will help them
develop their own individual sounds and
gestures to express their needs better
now actually we should really show you
what the different shades and colors of
poo and their diapers mean but hey we're
out of time here so we'll have to save
that for another day
do you have any baby communication
tricks of your own sound off in the
comments below don't forget to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click Subscribe stay with us on the
bright side